.TH "shiftc" "1" "10 May 2018" "" ""
./"################################################################
.SH "NAME"
./"################################################################
\fBshiftc\fP \(em a high performance reliable file transfer tool
./"################################################################
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
./"################################################################
.nf 
\fBshiftc\fP [OPTION]... SOURCE DEST
\fBshiftc\fP [OPTION]... SOURCE... DIRECTORY
\fBshiftc\fP [OPTION]...
.fi
.PP 
Reliably transfer SOURCE to DEST, multiple SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY, or
arbitrary SOURCE to DEST and/or SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY combinations
read from stdin.  By default, symbolic links to files on the command
line are followed, but symbolic links to directories are not (identical
to the default behavior of cp).
.PP 
Local paths are specified normally.  A path PATH on a remote host HOST
is specified using scp-style "HOST:PATH".  Note that transfers between
two remote hosts are not supported.
./"################################################################
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
./"################################################################
.PP 
shiftc is the client for Shift, which is a framework for
\fBS\fPelf-\fBH\fPealing \fBI\fPndependent \fBF\fPile \fBT\fPransfers.
Shift includes the following features, among others:
.IP -
support for local, LAN, and WAN transfers
.IP -
drop-in replacement for both cp and scp (basic options only)
.IP -
tracking of individual file operations with on-demand status
.IP -
transfer stop and restart
.IP -
email notification of completion, errors, and warnings
.IP -
local and remote tar creation/extraction
.IP -
rsync-like synchronization based on modification times and checksums
.IP -
integrity verification of transfers with partial retransfer/resum to
rectify corruption
.IP -
detection of silent corruption between transfers of the same file
.IP -
throttling based on local and remote resource utilization
.IP -
automatic retrieval and release of files residing on DMF-managed file
systems
.IP -
automatic striping of files transferred to Lustre file systems
.IP -
fully self-contained besides perl core and ssh
.IP -
automatic detection and selection of higher performance transports and
hash utilities when available including bbftp, mcp, msum, and rsync
.IP -
automatic many-to-many parallelization of single and multi-file
transfers with file system equivalence detection and rewriting
.PP
To support these features, shiftc communicates with a manager component
that is responsible for tracking transfers and directing the client to
process batches of file operations and return the results.
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS SUMMARY"
./"################################################################
The following options are available in shiftc.  Defaults are shown in
brackets.  Some options have short and long variants separated by
commas.  The \(cq\&=\(cq\& for options that take a parameter is
optional; whitespace may be used instead.  Detailed descriptions are
given in following sections.
.PP 
.nf 
\fBInitialization options (defaults in brackets):\fP
\-\-clients=NUM        use at most NUM clients per host [1]
\-\-create\-tar         create tar file of SOURCE(s) at DEST
\-L, \-\-dereference    always follow symbolic links
\-d, \-\-directory      create any missing parent directories
\-\-exclude=REGEX      exclude files matching REGEX
\-\-extract\-tar        extract tar file(s) at SOURCE to DEST
\-f, \-\-force          overwrite existing read-only files at DEST
\-h, \-\-help           help
\-\-host\-file=FILE     parallelize transfer on hosts in FILE (one per line)
\-\-host\-list=LIST     parallelize transfer on hosts in LIST
\-\-hosts=NUM          parallelize transfer on at most NUM client hosts [1]
\-\-identity=FILE      access remote systems with ssh identity in FILE
\-I, \-\-ignore\-times   do not skip files that match size and time
\-\-include=REGEX      include only files matching REGEX
\-\-index\-tar          create table of contents during tar creation
\-\-newer=[TYPE:]DATE  include only files with mtime [TYPE] newer than DATE
                       (TYPE in form [acmACM]+(|[acmACM]+)*)
\-P, \-\-no\-dereference never follow symbolic links
\-T, \-\-no\-target\-directory treat target as a normal file
\-\-older=[TYPE:]DATE  include only files with mtime [TYPE] older than DATE
                       (TYPE in form [acmACM]+(|[acmACM]+)*)
\-\-pipeline           emit verified files sooner for parallel processing
\-\-ports=NUM1:NUM2    use ports NUM1\-NUM2 for remote TCP\-based transports
\-R, \-r, \-\-recursive  copy directories recursively
\-\-secure             encrypt data stream(s) and use secure ciphers/macs
\-\-sync               synchronize files at destination
\-\-user=USER          access remote systems as USER
\-\-wait               block until transfer completes
                       (exit 0 = success, 1 = failure)
.PP
\fBFeature\-disablement options:\fP
\-\-no\-cron            do not recover from host/process failures via cron
\-\-no\-mail[=LIST]     do not send status emails [for LIST of states]
                       (LIST subset of {alert,done,error,run,stop,
                                        throttle,warn})
\-\-no\-offline         do not migrate DMF\-managed files after transfer
\-\-no\-preserve[=LIST] do not preserve attributes [on specific LIST]
                       (LIST subset of {acl,mode,owner,stripe,time,xattr})
\-\-no\-recall          do not recall DMF\-managed files before transfer
\-\-no\-sanity          do not check file existence/size (benchmarking only)
\-\-no\-silent          do not detect silent corruption or store checksums
\-\-no\-verify          do not verify/rectify integrity of destination files
.PP
\fBMonitoring and management options:\fP
\-\-history[=csv]      show command line/origin of transfers [in CSV form]
\-\-id=NUM             use transfer identifier NUM for other commands
\-\-last-sum           show last stored sum for SOURCE(s) or matching \-\-search
\-\-mgr=HOST           set host of shift manager to HOST
\-\-mgr\-identity=FILE  access manager host with ssh identity in FILE
\-\-mgr\-user=USER      access manager host as USER
\-\-monitor[=FORMAT]   monitor progress of running transfers
                       (FORMAT one of {color,csv,pad})
\-\-plot[=[BY[:/]]LIST] plot detailed performance when piped to gnuplot
                       (BY one of {client,fs,host,id,net,user})
                       (LIST subset of {bbftp,chattr,cksum,cp,find,fish,fish-tcp,
                                        io,ln,mcp,meta, mkdir,msum,rsync,shift-cp,
                                        shift-sum,sum,tool})
\-\-restart[=ignore]   restart transfer with given \-\-id [ignoring errors]
\-\-search=REGEX       show only status/history/last-sum matching REGEX
\-\-state=STATE        show status of only those operations in STATE
                       (STATE one of {done,error,none,queue,run,warn})
\-\-stats[=csv]        show stats across all transfers [in CSV form]
\-\-status[=FORMAT]    show brief status of all transfers
                       or detailed status of transfer with given \-\-id
                       (FORMAT one of {color,csv,pad})
\-\-stop               stop transfer with given \-\-id
.PP
\fBTuning options (defaults in brackets):\fP
\-\-bandwidth=BITS     tune TCP\-based transports based on BITS per second
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {Kb,Mb,Gb,Tb})
\-\-buffer=SIZE        use SIZE bytes for buffer in transports
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {KiB,MiB,GiB,TiB}) [4m]
\-\-files=COUNT        process transfer in batches of at least COUNT files
                       (use suffix {k,m,b/g,t} for 1E{3,6,9,12}) [1k]
\-\-interval=NUM       adjust batches to run for around NUM seconds [30]
\-\-local=LIST         set local transport mechanism to one of LIST
                       (LIST subset of {bbftp,fish,fish-tcp,mcp,rsync,shift})
\-\-preallocate=NUM    preallocate files when sparsity under NUM percent
\-\-remote=LIST        set remote transport mechanism to one of LIST
                       (LIST subset of {bbftp,fish,fish-tcp,rsync,shift})
\-\-retry=NUM          retry failed operations up to NUM times [2]
\-\-size=SIZE          process transfer in batches of at least SIZE bytes
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {KB,MB,GB,TB}) [4g]
\-\-split=SIZE         parallelize single files using chunks of SIZE bytes
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {KiB,MiB,GiB,TiB}) [0]
\-\-split\-tar=SIZE     create tar files of around SIZE bytes
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {KB,MB,GB,TB}) [500g]
\-\-streams=NUM        use NUM streams in remote transports [4]
\-\-stripe=[CEXP]      choose stripe {count,size,pool} via expr {C,S,P}EXP
    [::[SEXP][::PEXP]] (EXP may be NUM, SIZE, or full perl expression w/
                        const {DR,NM,SZ,SC,SS} for src {is_dirname,size,scnt,ssz})
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {KiB,MiB,GiB,TiB})
\-\-threads=NUM        use NUM threads in local transports [4]
\-\-verify\-fast        verify faster but less safely by reusing src buffer
\-\-window=SIZE        use SIZE bytes for window in TCP\-based transports
                       (use suffix {k,m,g,t} for {KB,MB,GB,TB}) [4m]
.PP
\fBThrottling options:\fP
\-\-cpu=NUM            throttle local cpu usage at NUM %
\-\-disk=NUM1:NUM2     suspend/resume transfer when target NUM1%/NUM2% full
\-\-io=NUM             throttle local i/o usage at NUM MB/s
\-\-ior=NUM            throttle local i/o reads at NUM MB/s
\-\-iow=NUM            throttle local i/o writes at NUM MB/s
\-\-net=NUM            throttle local network usage at NUM MB/s
\-\-netr=NUM           throttle local network reads at NUM MB/s
\-\-netw=NUM           throttle local network writes at NUM MB/s
.fi 
./"################################################################
.SH "TRANSFER INITIALIZATION"
./"################################################################
Transfers are initialized using syntax identical to cp/scp for
local/remote transfers, respectively.  The most commonly used options
during initialization are listed below.
.IP "\fB\-\-clients=NUM\fP"
Parallelize the transfer by using additional clients on each host.  If
the number given is one, no additional clients will be used.  A number
greater than one will fork additional processes on each host to more
fully utilize system resources and increase transfer performance.
.IP "\fB\-\-create\-tar\fP"
Create a tar file of all sources at the destination, which must be a
non-existing file name.  This option implies \fB\-\-recursive\fP and
\fB\-\-no\-offline\fP.  By default, multiple tar files are created at
500 GB boundaries.  The split size may be changed or splitting disabled
using the \fB\-\-split\-tar\fP option.  The \fB\-\-index\-tar\fP option
may be used to produce a table of contents file for each tar file
created.  Note that this option cannot be used with \fB\-\-sync\fP.
.IP "\fB\-L, \-\-dereference\fP"
Always follow symbolic links to both files and directories.  Note that
this can result in file and directory duplication at the destination as
all symbolic links will become real files and directories.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-directory\fP"
Create any missing parent directories.  This option allows files to be
transferred to a directory hierarchy that may not already exist, similar
to the \fB\-d\fP option of the "install" command.
.IP "\fB\-\-exclude=REGEX\fP"
Do not transfer source files matching the given regular expression.
Note that regular expressions must be given in Perl syntax (see
perlre(1) for details) and should be quoted on the command line when
including characters normally expanded by the shell (e.g. "*").  Shell
wildcard behavior can be approximated by using ".*" in place of "*".
.IP "\fB\-\-extract\-tar\fP"
Extract all source tar files to the destination, which must be an
existing directory or non-existing directory name.  This option implies
\fB\-\-no\-offline\fP.  Note that only tar archives in the POSIX ustar
format are supported, but GNU extensions for large uids, gids, file
sizes, and file names are handled appropriately.  Also note that this
option cannot be used with \fB\-\-sync\fP.
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-force\fP"
Overwrite existing read-only files at the destination by temporarily
adding owner write permission.  File permissions will be restored
later in the transfer.  Note, however, that if the transfer does not
complete successfully, files may be left with the wrong permissions.
Also note that files marked as immutable using "chattr +i" cannot
be overwritten even when this option is in effect.
.IP "\fB\-\-host\-file=FILE\fP"
Parallelize the transfer by using additional clients on the hosts
specified in the given file (one host name per line).  This option
implies a \fB\-\-hosts\fP value equal to the number of hosts in the file
plus any additional hosts from the \fB\-\-host\-list\fP option.  Less
hosts may be used by explicitly specifying a \fB\-\-hosts\fP value.
Note that the actual number of client hosts used will depend upon number
of hosts that have equivalent access to the source and/or destination
file systems.  Within PBS job scripts, this option can be set to the
$PBS_NODEFILE variable to use all nodes of the job.
.IP "\fB\-\-host\-list=LIST\fP"
Parallelize the transfer by using additional clients on the hosts
specified in the given comma-separated list.  This option implies a
\fB\-\-hosts\fP value equal to the number of hosts on the list plus any
additional hosts from the \fB\-\-host\-file\fP option.  Less hosts may
be used by explicitly specifying a \fB\-\-hosts\fP value.  Note that the
actual number of client hosts used will depend upon number of hosts that
have equivalent access to the source and/or destination file systems.
.IP "\fB\-\-hosts=NUM\fP"
Parallelize the transfer by using additional clients on at most the
given number of hosts.  If the number given is one, no additional
client hosts will be used.  A number greater than one enables automatic
transfer parallelization where additional clients may be invoked on
additional hosts to increase transfer performance.  Note that the actual
number of client hosts used will depend upon the number of hosts for
which Shift has file system information and the number of hosts that
have equivalent access to the source and/or destination file systems.
Client hosts will be accessed as the current user with hostbased
authentication or an existing ssh agent that contains an ssh identity
from a file matching ~/.ssh/id*.
.IP "\fB\-\-identity=FILE\fP"
Authenticate to remote systems using the given ssh identity file.
The corresponding public key must reside in the appropriate user's
~/.ssh/authorized_keys file on the remote host.  Note that only
identity files without passphrases are supported.  If a passphrase is
required, an ssh agent may be used instead, but with a loss of
reliability.  This option is not needed if the remote host accepts
hostbased authentication from client hosts.  
.IP "\fB\-I, \-\-ignore\-times\fP"
By default, the \fB\-\-sync\fP option skips the processing of files
that have the same size and modification time at the source and
destination.  This option specifies that files should always be
processed by checksum regardless of size and modification time.
.IP "\fB\-\-include=REGEX\fP"
Only transfer source files matching the given regular expression.
Note that regular expressions must be given in Perl syntax (see
perlre(1) for details) and should be quoted on the command line when
including characters normally expanded by the shell (e.g. "*").  Shell
wildcard behavior can be approximated by using ".*" in place of "*".
.IP "\fB\-\-index\-tar\fP"
Create a table of contents file for each tar file created with
\fB\-\-create\-tar\fP.  The table of contents will show each file in the
tar file along with permissions, user/group ownership, and size.  For a
tar file "file.tar", the table of contents will be named "file.tar.toc".
Unless the \fB\-\-no\-verify\fP option is used, a checksum file will
also be created named "file.tar.sum", which is suitable as input for
"msum --check-tree -c".  Note that when \fB\-\-split\-tar\fP is used,
multiple table of contents and checksum files may be created.  For each
split tar file "file.tar-i.tar", the table of contents will be named
"file.tar-i.tar.toc" and the checksum file will be named
"file.tar-i.tar.sum".
.IP "\fB\-\-newer=[TYPE:]DATE\fP"
Only transfer source files whose modification time (or combination of
modification, access, and/or creation times) is newer (inclusive) than
the given date.  Any date string supported by the Perl Date::Parse
module (see Date::Parse(3) for details) can be specified.  An optional
type expression of the form "[acmACM]+(|[acmACM]+)*)", where "a" is
access time, "c" is creation time, "m" is modification time, and "A",
"C", and "M", are their inverses, respectively, can be given to specify
conditions in which one or more conditions are or are not newer than the
date.  For example, "aM|cm" would transfer source files whose access
time was newer than the date but whose modification time was not newer,
or files whose creation time and modification time were newer.  Note
that this option can be combined with \fB\-\-older\fP to specify exact
date ranges.
.IP "\fB\-P, \-\-no\-dereference\fP"
Never follow symbolic links to file or directories.  Note that this
can result in broken links at the destination as files and directories
referenced by symbolic links that were not explicitly transferred or
implicitly transferred using \fB\-\-recursive\fP may not exist on the
target.
.IP "\fB\-T, \-\-no\-target\-directory\fP"
Do not treat the destination specially when it is a directory or a
symbolic link to a directory.  This option can be used with recursive
transfers to copy a directory's contents into an existing directory 
instead of into a new subdirectory beneath it as is done by default.
.IP "\fB\-\-older=[TYPE:]DATE\fP"
Only transfer source files whose modification time (or combination of
modification, access, and/or creation times) is older than the given
date.  Any date string supported by the Perl Date::Parse module (see
Date::Parse(3) for details) can be specified.  An optional type
expression of the form "[acmACM]+(|[acmACM]+)*)", where "a" is access
time, "c" is creation time, "m" is modification time, and "A", "C", and
"M", are their inverses, respectively, can be given to specify
conditions in which one or more conditions are or are not older than the
date.  For example, "aM|cm" would transfer source files whose access
time was older than the date but whose modification time was not older,
or files whose creation time and modification time were both newer.
Note that this option can be combined with \fB\-\-newer\fP to specify
exact date ranges.
.IP "\fB\-\-pipeline\fP"
Produce verified files earlier in the transfer by preferring to process
the normal sequence of operations (find, copy, checksum, verify
ckecksum, change attributes) in reverse order.  In default non-pipeline
operation, these stages are performed in order where all files are found
before any are copied before any are checksummed, etc.  When this option
is enabled, files that have reached the change attribute stage will be
processed before files that have reached the verify checksum stage,
which will be processed before files that have reached the checksum
stage, etc.  This allows users to perform parallel processing on
verified files while the transfer is still ongoing.  To determine the
list of files that have been successfully verified in a transfer with id
"N", use \fB\-\-status \-\-id=N \-\-state=done \-\-search=chattr\fP.
When multiple clients are participating in the transfer (i.e.
\fB\-\-clients\fP or \fB\-\-hosts\fP greater than one), different
clients will prefer different stages for more overlap of reads and
writes between the source and destination file systems.  Note that while
several strategies are employed to ensure that checksums are computed
from disk and not from cache, it is safest to only use this option when
there is actually a need to process destination files during the
transfer.
.IP "\fB\-\-ports=NUM1:NUM2\fP"
Use ports from the range NUM1-NUM2 for the data streams of TCP-based
transports (currently, bbftp and fish-tcp).  All connections
originate from the client host so the given port range must be allowed
on the network path to the remote host and by the remote host itself.
.IP "\fB\-R, \-r, \-\-recursive\fP"
Transfer directories recursively.  This option implies
\fB\-\-no\-dereference\fP.Note that any symbolic links pointing
to directories given on the command line will be followed during
recursive transfers (identical to the default behavior of cp).
.IP "\fB\-\-secure\fP"
Encrypt data during remote transfers and use secure ciphers and MACs
with SSH-based transports.  Note that this option will, in most cases,
decrease performance as it eliminates some higher performance transports
and increases CPU utilization during SSH connections.
.IP "\fB\-\-sync\fP"
Synchronize files between the source and destination, similar to the
rsync command.  By default, files that have the same size and
modification time at the source and destination will not be transferred.
If the size or modification time of a file differs between the two, the
contents of the file will be compared via checksum and any portions that
differ will be transferred to the destination.  To skip the size and
modification time checks and always begin with the checksum stage, use
\fB\-I\fP or \fB\-\-ignore\-times\fP.  If \fB\-\-no\-verify\fP is
specified, integrity verification is not performed, which will increase
performance when there are many files at the source that are not at
the destination but will decrease performance when there are large files
that have only small changes between the source and destination.
Setting \fB\-\-retry\fP to zero with this option can be used to show
which files differ without making any changes.  Note that when syncing
directories, the destination should be specified as the parent of the
location where the source directory should be transferred to.  Also note
that this option cannot be used with \fB\-\-create\-tar\fP or
\fB\-\-extract\-tar\fB.
.IP "\fB\-\-user=USER\fP"
Set the user that will be used to access remote systems.
.IP "\fB\-\-wait\fP"
Block until the transfer completes and print a summary of the transfer.
This option implies \fB\-\-no\-mail\fP.  An exit value of 0 indicates
that the transfer has successfully completed while an exit value of 1
indicates that the transfer has failed or that the waiting process was
terminated prematurely.  This option may be used together with
\fB\-\-monitor\fP to show the real-time status of the transfer while
waiting.
./"################################################################
.SH "FEATURE DISABLEMENT
./"################################################################
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-cron\fP"
Do not attempt to recover from host/process failures via cron.  Note
that when such a failure occurs, the transfer will become stuck in the
"run" state until stopped.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-mail[=LIST]\fP"
By default, emails are sent when a transfer completes successfully,
aborts with errors, or is stopped, and for the first instances of
alerts, errors, throttling, and/or warnings while running.  This option
prevents emails from being sent altogether or, optionally, for a specific
subset of states.  The given list may be a comma-separated subset of
{alert, done, error, run, stop, throttle, warn}.  This option may be
desirable when performing a large number of scripted transfers.  Note
that equivalent transfer status and history information can always be
manually retrieved using \fB\-\-status\fP and \fB\-\-history\fP,
respectively.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-offline\fP"
By default, files transferred to/from DMF-managed file systems will be
migrated to offline media as soon as the transfer completes.  This
option specifies that files should not be migrated.  Note that DMF may
still choose to migrate (and possibly release) files even when this
option is enabled.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-preserve[=LIST]\fP"
By default, times, permissions, ownership, striping, ACLs, and extended
attributes of transferred files and directories are preserved when
possible.  This option specifies that these items (or an optional
specified subset) should not be preserved.  The given list may be a
comma-separated subset of {acl, mode, owner, stripe, time, xattr}.  Note
that permissions may be left in various states depending on the invoking
user's umask and the transport utilized.  In particular, read access at
the destination may be more permissive than read access at the source.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-recall\fP"
By default, files transferred from DMF-managed file systems will be
recalled from offline media as soon as the transfer begins and again
before each batch of files is processed.  This option specifies that
files should not be recalled.  Note that DMF will still recall files
as needed even when this option is enabled.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-sanity\fP"
Disable file existence and size checks at the end of the transfer.
This option was included for benchmarking and completeness purposes
and is not recommended for general use.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-silent\fP"
By default, the checksums of all files transferred with Shift are
stored in a per-user database.  When a file with a known checksum is
transferred and has not been modified since the checksum was stored, the
transfer will be put into the "alert" state if the current checksum does
not match the stored checksum.  This option disables the storage of
checksums and comparison against existing checksums.  While silent
corruption detection adds minimal overhead during normal operation, it
can increase the probability of lock contention when there are large
numbers of clients.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-verify\fP"
By default, files are checksummed at the source and destination to
verify that they have not been corrupted and if corruption is detected,
the corrupted portion of the destination file is automatically corrected
using a partial transfer from the original source.  This functionality
decreases the performance of transfers in proportion to the file size.
If assurance of integrity is not required, the \fB\-\-no\-verify\fP
option may be used to disable verification.
./"################################################################
.SH "TRANSFER MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT
./"################################################################
Once one or more transfers have been initialized, the user may view
transfer history, stop/restart transfers, and/or check transfer status
with the following options.
.IP "\fB\-\-history[=csv]\fP"
Show a brief history of all transfers including the transfer identifier,
the origin host/directory and the original command.  When
\fB\-\-history=csv\fP is specified, history is shown in CSV format.
.IP "\fB\-\-id=NUM\fP"
Specify the transfer identifier to be used with management and status
commands.
.IP "\fB\-\-last\-sum\fP"
When \fB\-\-search\fP is given, queries the silent corruption database for all
files whose name or file system matches the given regular expression and prints
(one file per line) the last known checksum, the file modification time
associated with this checksum, and the file name.  Otherwise, queries the silent
corruption database for all files given on the command line.  When
\fB\-\-index\-tar\fP is given, the first file argument is assumed to be a tar
file and the remaining arguments names of files within the tar for which
checksum information will be printed.  A checksum of "-" means that no
information is stored for the file.
.IP "\fB\-\-mgr=HOST\fP"
Set the host that will be used to manage transfers.  By default, this
host will be accessed as the current user with hostbased authentication
or an existing ssh agent.  The user and/or identity used to access the
manager host may be changed with the \fB\-\-mgr\-user\fP and
\fB\-\-mgr\-identity\fP options, respectively.
.IP "\fB\-\-mgr\-identity=FILE\fP"
Authenticate to the manager host using the given ssh identity file.
The corresponding public key must reside in the appropriate user's
~/.ssh/authorized_keys file on the manager host.  Note that only
identity files without passphrases are supported.  If a passphrase is
required, an ssh agent may be used instead, but with a loss of
reliability.  This option is not needed if the manager host accepts
hostbased authentication from client hosts.  
.IP "\fB\-\-mgr\-user=USER\fP"
Set the user that will be used to access the manager host.  Note that if
the transfer is initiated by root and \fB\-\-mgr\-identity\fP is not
specified, manager communication will be performed as the given user
so that user must be authorized to run processes locally.  In
particular, care should be taken on PBS-controlled nodes, where the
given user should either own the node or be on the user exception list.
.IP "\fB\-\-monitor[=FORMAT]\fP"
Show the real-time status of all running transfers including the
transfer identifier, the current state, the number of directories
completed, the number of files transferred, the number of files
checksummed, the number of attributes preserved, the amount of data
transferred, the amount of data checksummed, the time the transfer
started, the duration of the transfer, the estimated time remaining in
the transfer, and the rate of the transfer.  Note that updates are
real-time with respect to the information available to the manager and
not with respect to the transports that may be carrying out the
transfer.  Status will be returned in CSV format when
\fB\-\-monitor=csv\fP is specified.  Duration and estimated time will be
zero-padded when \fB\-\-monitor=pad\fP is specified.  When
\fB\-\-monitor=color\fP is specified, transfers in the {error, run,
throttle, warn} states will be shown with {red, green, magenta, yellow}
coloring, respectively.  When \fB\-\-id\fP is specified, only the given
transfer will be shown.  When all transfers (or the one specified)
have completed, the command will exit.  This option may be used with
\fB\-\-wait\fP to monitor progress while waiting.
.IP "\fB\-\-plot=[=[BY[:/]]LIST]\fP"
Produce output suitable for piping into gnuplot (version 5 or above)
that shows detailed performance over time across all transfers.  The
\fB\-\-id\fP and \fB\-\-state\fP options may be used to plot only a
single transfer or transfers in a particular state, respectively.  The
default plot will show the aggregate performance of each I/O operation
(i.e. cp, sum, and cksum) and the aggregate performance of each metadata
operation (i.e. find, mkdir, ln, and chattr) across all of the user's
transfers.  Operations and/or additional groupings are shown on the
left y-axis axis across time on the x-axis with heat-based coloring
indicating MB/s for I/O operations or operations per second for metadata
operations.  In addition, aggregate I/O and metadata performance will be
shown as an overlayed point plot with green and blue points,
respectively.
.IP
The list of plotted items may be changed by giving a comma-separated
list consisting of one or more of the stages {chattr, cksum, cp, find,
io, ln, meta, mkdir, sum} and/or one or more of the tools {bbftp, fish,
fish-tcp, mcp, msum, rsync, shift-cp, shift-sum}.  Note that "io" is a
shorthand for "cp,sum,cksum", "meta" is a shorthand for
"find,mkdir,ln,chattr", and "tool" is a shorthand for
"bbftp,fish,fish-tcp,mcp,msum,rsync,shift-cp,shift-sum".
.IP
The list of items may be grouped by any of {client, fs, host, id, net,
user} by prefixing one of these terms to the list.  For example,
\fB\-\-plot=id:cp\fP would show a plot of the copy performance achieved
by each transfer id.  When a grouping is given without a specific list
of metrics (e.g. \fB\-\-plot=id\fP), "io" is assumed.  When a slash "/"
is used instead of colon ":", a heatmap-based bubble plot will be
created with the size of each circle indicating the relative size of the
batch of operations.  For example, \fB\-\-plot=fs/tool\fP would show a
plot of the performance that each tool achieved on each file system
with relative batch size.
.IP "\fB\-\-restart[=ignore]\fP"
Restart the transfer associated with the given \fB\-\-id\fP that was
stopped due to unrecoverable errors or stopped explicitly via
\fB\-\-stop\fP.  If \fB\-\-restart=ignore\fP is specified, all existing
errors will be ignored and the transfer will progress as if the
associated files and directories were no longer part of the transfer.
Note that transfers must be restarted on the original client host or one
that has equivalent file system access.  A subset of the available
command-line options may be respecified during a restart including
\fB\-\-bandwidth\fP, \fB\-\-buffer\fP, \fB\-\-clients\fP, \fB\-\-cpu\fP,
\fB\-\-disk\fP, \fB\-\-files\fP, \fB\-\-force\fP, \fB\-\-host\-file\fP,
\fB\-\-host\-list\fP, \fB\-\-hosts\fP, \fB\-\-interval\fP, \fB\-\-io\fP,
\fB\-\-ior\fP, \fB\-\-iow\fP, \fB\-\-local\fP, \fB\-\-net\fP,
\fB\-\-netr\fP, \fB\-\-netw\fP, \fB\-\-no\-cron\fP, \fB\-\-no\-mail\fP,
\fB\-\-no\-offline\fP, \fB\-\-no\-recall\fP, \fB\-\-no\-silent,
\fB\-\-pipeline\fP, \fB\-\-ports\fP, \fB\-\-preallocate\fP,
\fB\-\-remote\fP, \fB\-\-retry\fP, \fB\-\-secure\fP, \fB\-\-size\fP,
\fB\-\-streams\fP, \fB\-\-stripe\fP, \fB\-\-threads\fP, and
\fB\-\-window\fP.
.IP "\fB\-\-search=REGEX\fP"
When \fB\-\-status\fP and \fB\-\-id\fP are specified, this option will
show the full status of file operations in the associated transfer whose
source or destination file name match the given regular expression.
.IP
When \fB\-\-history\fP is specified, this option will show a brief
history of the transfers whose origin host or original command match the
given regular expression.
.IP
When \fB\-\-last-sum\fP is specified, this option will query the silent
corruption database for files whose name or file system match the given
regular expression.
.IP
Note that regular expressions must be given in Perl syntax (see
perlre(1) for details).
.IP "\fB\-\-state=STATE\fP"
When \fB\-\-status\fP and \fB\-\-id\fP are specified, this option will
show the full status of file operations in the associated transfer that
have the given state.  When \fB\-\-id\fP is not specified, this option
will show the brief status of transfers in the given state.  Valid
states are done, error, none, queue, run, and warn.  A state of "none"
will show a summary of the given transfer.
.IP "\fB\-\-stats[=csv]\fP"
Show stats across all transfers including transfer counts, rates, tool
usage, initialization options, error counts, and error messages.  When
\fB\-\-stats=csv\fP is specified, stats are shown in CSV format
without error messages.
.IP "\fB\-\-status[=FORMAT]\fP"
Show a brief status of all transfers including the transfer identifier,
the current state, the number of directories completed, the number of
files transferred, the number of files checksummed, the number of
attributes preserved, the amount of data transferred, the amount of data
checksummed, the time the transfer started, the duration of the
transfer, the estimated time remaining in the transfer, and the rate of
the transfer.  When the number of transfers exceeds a set threshold (20
by default), older successfully completed transfers beyond that limit
will be omitted for readability.  These omitted transfers can be shown
using \fB\-\-status\fP with \fB\-\-state=done\fP.  Status will be
returned in CSV format when \fB\-\-status=csv\fP is specified.  Duration
and estimated time will be zero-padded when \fB\-\-status=pad\fP is
specified.  When \fB\-\-status=color\fP is specified, transfers in the
{done, error, run, stop, throttle, warn} states will be shown with
{default, red, green, cyan, magenta, yellow} coloring, respectively.
.IP
When \fB\-\-id\fP is specified, this option will show the full status of
every file operation in the associated transfer.  For each operation,
this includes the state, the type, the tool used for processing, the
target path, associated information (error messages, checksums, byte
ranges, and/or running host) when applicable, the size of the file,
the time processing started, and the rate of the operation.  Note that
not all of these items will be applicable at all times (e.g. rate will
be empty if the state is error).  Also note that operations are
processed in batches so the rate shown for a single operation will
depend on the other operations processed in the same batch.  When
\fB\-\-status=color\fP is specified, operations in the {done, error,
queue, run, warn} states will be shown with {default, red, cyan,
green, yellow} coloring, respectively.
.IP "\fB\-\-stop\fP"
Stop the transfer associated with the given \fB\-\-id\fP.  Note that
transfer operations currently in progress will run to completion but new
operations will not be processed.  Stopped transfers may be restarted
with \fB\-\-restart\fP.
./"################################################################
.SH "TRANSFER TUNING"
./"################################################################
Some advanced options are available to tune various aspects of shiftc
behavior.  These options are not needed by most users.
.IP "\fB\-\-bandwidth=BITS\fP"
Choose the TCP window size and number of TCP streams of TCP-based
transports (currently, bbftp and fish-tcp) based on the given bits per
second.  The suffixes k, m, g, and t may be used for Kb, Mb, Gb, and Tb,
respectively.  The default bandwidth is estimated to be 10 Gb/s if a 10
GE adapter is found on the client host, 1 Gb/s if the client host can be
resolved to an organization domain (by default, one of the six original
generic top-level domains), and 100 Mb/s otherwise.
.IP "\fB\-\-buffer=SIZE\fP"
Use memory buffer(s) of the given size when configurable in the
underlying tranport being utilized (currently, all but rsync).  The
suffixes k, m, g, and t may be used for KiB, MiB, GiB, and TiB,
respectively.  The default buffer size is 4 MiB.  Increasing the
buffer size trades higher memory utilization for more efficient I/O.
.IP "\fB\-\-files=COUNT\fP"
Process transfers in batches of at least the given number of files.
The suffixes k, m, b or g, and t may be used for 1E3, 1E6, 1E9, and
1E12, respectively.  The default batch count is 1000 files.  This option
works in concert with \fB\-\-size\fP and \fB\-\-interval\fP to manage
the number of checkpoints and the overhead of transfer management.  A
batch will initially consist of at least \fB\-\-files\fP files or
\fB\-\-size\fP bytes, whichever is reached first.  The batch may then
be dynamically increased in size until there is enough work to span
\fB\-\-interval\fP seconds.  To make batch selection completely dynamic,
use \fB\-\-files=1\fP and \fB\-\-size=1\fP.
.IP "\fB\-\-interval=SECS\fP"
Process transfers in batches that take around the given number of
seconds.  The default interval is 30 seconds.  This option works in
concert with \fB\-\-files\fP and \fB\-\-size\fP to manage the number of
checkpoints and the overhead of transfer management.  A batch will
initially consist of at least \fB\-\-files\fP files or \fB\-\-size\fP
bytes, whichever is reached first.  The batch may then be dynamically
increased in size until there is enough work to span \fB\-\-interval\fP
seconds.  Note that the actual time a batch takes will depend on its
contents and that the interval will be increased as the number of
clients participating in a transfer increases to minimize contention
for manager locks.  To make batch selection completely static, use
\fB\-\-interval=0\fP.
.IP "\fB\-\-local=LIST\fP"
Specify one or more local transports to be used for the transfer in
order of preference, separated by commas.  Valid transports for this
option currently include bbftp, cp, fish, fish-tcp, mcp, and rsync.
Note that the given transport(s) will be given priority, but may not be
used in some cases (e.g. rsync is not capable of transferring a specific
portion of a file as needed by verification mode).  In such cases, the
default transport based on File::Copy will be used.  The tool actually
used for each file operation can be shown using \fB\-\-status\fP with
\fB\-\-id\fP set to the given transfer identifier.
.IP "\fB\-\-preallocate=NUM\fP"
Preallocate files when their sparsity is under the given percent, where
sparsity is defined as the number of bytes a file takes up on disk
divided by its size.  Note that this option will only have an effect
when the fallocate command is available, the destination file does not
already exist, and the target file system properly supports fallocate's
-n option.  Also note that this option will not function properly when
either bbftp or rsync (to a DMF file system) is utilized as the
transport due to their use of temporary files.
.IP "\fB\-\-remote=LIST\fP"
Specify one or more remote transports to be used for the transfer in
order of preference, separated by commas.  Valid transports for this
option currently include bbftp, fish, fish-tcp, rsync, and sftp.  Note
that the given transport(s) will be given priority, but may not be used
in some cases (e.g. bbftp is not capable of transferring files with
spaces in their names and is also incompatible with \fB\-\-secure\fP).
In such cases, the default transport based on sftp will be used.  The
tool actually used for each file operation can be shown using
\fB\-\-status\fP with \fB\-\-id\fP set to the given transfer identifier.
.IP "\fB\-\-retry=NUM\fP"
Retry operations deemed recoverable up to the given number of attempts
per file.  The default number of retries is 2.  A value of zero disables
retries.  Note that disabling retries also disables the ability of
\fB\-\-sync\fP to change file contents.  Also note that the given
value is cumulative across all stages of a file's processing so
different stages may not be retried the same number of times.
.IP "\fB\-\-size=SIZE\fP"
Process transfers in batches of at least the given total file size.
The suffixes k, m, g, and t may be used for KB, MB, GB, and TB,
respectively.  The default batch size is 4 GB.  This option works in
concert with \fB\-\-files\fP and \fB\-\-interval\fP to manage the number
of checkpoints and the overhead of transfer management.  A batch will
initially consist of at least \fB\-\-size\fP bytes or \fB\-\-files\fP
files, whichever is reached first.  The batch may then be dynamically
increased in size until there is enough work to span \fB\-\-interval\fP
seconds.  To make batch selection completely dynamic, use
\fB\-\-files=1\fP and \fB\-\-size=1\fP.
.IP "\fB\-\-split=SIZE\fP"
Parallelize the processing of single files using chunks of the given
size.  The suffixes k, m, g, and t may be used for KiB, MiB, GiB, and
TiB, respectively.  The default split size is zero, which disables
single file parallelization.  A split size of less than 1 GiB is not
recommended.  Lowering the split size will increase parallelism but
decrease the performance of each file chunk and increase the overhead of
transfer management.  Raising the split size will have the opposite
effect.  The ideal split size for a given file is the size of the file
divided by the number of concurrent clients available.  Note that this
option does not have an effect unless \fB\-\-hosts\fP is greater than
one.  Also note that this option can, in some cases, decrease remote
transfer performance as it eliminates some higher performance
transports.
.IP "\fB\-\-split\-tar=SIZE\fP"
Create tar files of around the given size when used with
\fB\-\-create\-tar\fP.  When multiple tar files are created for a
destination tar file "file.tar", the resulting split tar files will be
named "file.tar-i.tar" starting from "file.tar-1.tar".  The suffixes k,
m, g, and t may be used for KB, MB, GB, and TB, respectively.  The
default split tar size is 500 GB.  A value of zero disables splitting.
A split tar size of greater than 2 TB is not recommended.  Note that
resulting tar files may still be larger than specified when source files
exist that are larger than the given size.
.IP "\fB\-\-streams=NUM\fP"
Use the given number of TCP streams in TCP-based transports (currently,
bbftp and fish-tcp).  The default is the number of streams necessary
to fully utilize the specified/estimated bandwidth using the maximum TCP
window size.  Note that it is usually preferable to specify
\fB\-\-bandwidth\fP, which allows an appropriate number of streams to be
set automatically.  Increasing the number of streams can increase
performance when the maximum window size is set too low or there is
cross-traffic on the network, but too high a value can decrease
performance due to increased congestion and packet loss.
.IP "\fB\-\-stripe=[CEXP][::[SEXP][::PEXP]]\fP"
By default, a file transferred to a Lustre file system will be striped
according to an administrator-defined policy (one stripe per GiB when
not configured).  It is recommended, although not required, that this
policy preserve existing striping when the source resides on Lustre and
has non-default striping.  To disregard existing striping, "stripe" may
be used with \fB\-\-no\-preserve\fP=stripe.  To disable automatic
striping completely and use the default lustre behavior for all files
and directories, use \fB\-\-stripe=0\fP.
.IP
The user may override the default policy by specifying expressions for
one or more of the stripe count (CEXP), stripe size (SEXP), and stripe
pool (PEXP).  For the stripe count, a positive number less than 65,536
indicates a fixed number of stripes to use for all destination files and
directories.  A greater number or size defined with the suffixes k, m,
g, and t for KiB, MiB, GiB, and TiB, respectively, specifies that files
will be allocated one stripe per given size while directories will be
striped according to the default policy.  Finally, an arbitrary Perl
expression (see perlsyn(1) for details) involving the constants DR, NM,
SZ, SC, and SS for is a directory, source name, size, stripe count, and
stripe size, respectively, may be specified to dynamically define the
stripe count differently for every file and directory in the transfer.
For example, the expression "NM =~ /foo/ ? 4 : (SZ < 10g ? 2g : 10g)"
would set the stripe count of files whose name contains "foo" to 4, and
the stripe count of files whose name does not contain "foo" to either one
stripe per 2 GiB when the file size is less than 10 GiB or one stripe per
10 GiB otherwise.
.IP
Striping behavior may be further refined by specifying a stripe size
expression and/or Lustre pool name expression with similar conventions.
The stripe count and/or stripe size can be left empty before the colons
when specifying the stripe size or pool, respectively.  For example,
\fB\-\-stripe=::4m\fP would specify the stripe size to be 4 MiB while
using the default stripe count policy and, similarly,
\fB\-\-stripe=::::pool1\fP would use the pool "pool1" while using the
default stripe count and stripe size.  Note that if the stripe pool is a
perl expression and not a simple alphanumeric pool name, pool names must
use perl conventions for indicating strings such as quotes and/or
quote-like operators (e.g. "NM =~ /foo/ ? q(poolfoo) : q(poolbar)").
.IP "\fB\-\-threads=NUM\fP"
Use the given number of threads in multi-threaded transports and
checksum utilities (currently, mcp and msum).  The default number of
threads is 4.  Increasing the number of threads can increase
transfer/checksum performance when a host has excess resource capacity,
but can reduce performance when any associated resource has reached
its maximum.
.IP "\fB\-\-verify\-fast\fP"
By default, files are checksummed at the source and destination to
verify that they have not been corrupted with the source being read once
during the copy and again during the checksum.  The options specifies
that the source copy buffer should be reused when possible for the
source checksum calculations.  This potentially increases performance up
to 33%, but does not allow bits corrupted during the initial read to be
detected.
.IP "\fB\-\-window=SIZE\fP"
Use a TCP send/receive window of the given size in TCP-based transports
(currently, bbftp and fish-tcp).  The suffixes k, m, g, and t may be
used for KB, MB, GB, and TB, respectively.  The default is the product
of the specified/estimated bandwidth and the round-trip time between
source and destination.  Note that it is usually preferable to specify
\fB\-\-bandwidth\fP, which allows an appropriate window size to be set
automatically.  Increasing the window size allows TCP to operate more
efficiently over high bandwidth and/or high latency networks, but too
high a value can overrun the receiver and cause packet loss.
./"################################################################
.SH "TRANSFER THROTTLING"
./"################################################################
Transfers can be throttled to prevent resource exhaustion when they
reach configured thresholds for CPU, disk, I/O, and/or network
utilization.
.IP "\fB\-\-cpu=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local CPU usage reaches the specified
percent of the total available.  This option is disabled by default but
may be desirable to prevent transfers from consuming too much of the
local CPU.  Once the given threshold is reached, a sleep period will
be induced between each batch of files to achieve an average CPU
utilization equal to the value specified.  Note that this functionality
is currently only supported on Unix-like systems.
.IP "\fB\-\-disk=NUM1:NUM2\fP"
Suspend/resume the transfer when the target file system disk usage
reaches the specified percent of the total available.  This option is
disabled by default but may be desirable to prevent transfers from
consuming too much local or remote disk space.  Once the first
threshold is reached, the transfer will suspend until enough disk
resources have been freed on the target to bring the disk utilization
under the second threshold.  Note that this functionality is currently
only supported on Unix-like systems.
.IP "\fB\-\-io=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local I/O usage reaches the specified
rate in MB/s.  This option is disabled by default but may be desirable
to prevent transfers from consuming too much of the local I/O bandwidth.
Once the given threshold is reached, a sleep period will be induced
between each batch of files to achieve an average I/O rate equal to
the value specified.
.IP "\fB\-\-ior=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local I/O reads reach the specified
rate in MB/s.  This option is similar to \fB\-\-io\fP but only applies
to reads.
.IP "\fB\-\-iow=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local I/O writes reach the specified
rate in MB/s.  This option is similar to \fB\-\-io\fP but only applies
to writes.
.IP "\fB\-\-net=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local network usage reaches the specified
rate in MB/s.  This option is disabled by default but may be desirable
to prevent transfers from consuming too much of the local network
bandwidth.  Once the given threshold is reached, a sleep period will be
induced between each batch of files to achieve an average network rate
equal to the value specified.
.IP "\fB\-\-netr=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local network reads reach the specified
rate in MB/s.  This option is similar to \fB\-\-net\fP but only applies
to reads.
.IP "\fB\-\-netw=NUM\fP"
Throttle the transfer when the local network writes reach the specified
rate in MB/s.  This option is similar to \fB\-\-net\fP but only applies
to writes.
./"################################################################
.SH "EXAMPLES"
./"################################################################
Copy local file "file1" in the current directory to existing local
directory "/dir1":
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc file1 /dir1\fP

Shift id is 1
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Copy local file "file1" in the current directory to the user's home
directory on host "host2":
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc file1 host2:\fP

Shift id is 2
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Recursively copy local directory "/dir1" to local directory "/dir2"
and skip verifying that the contents have not been corrupted during the
transfer:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc -r --no-verify /dir1 /dir2\fP

Shift id is 3
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Recursively copy remote directory "/dir2" on host "host2" to the current
directory using a secure transport:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc -r --secure host2:/dir2 .\fP

Shift id is 4
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Recursively copy local directory "/bigdir1" to local directory
"/bigdir2" using 4 client hosts to perform the transfer.
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc -r --hosts=4 /bigdir1 /bigdir2\fP

Shift id is 5
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the status of all transfers:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --status\fP

id | state | dirs | files |     file size |  date | length |    rate
   |       | sums | attrs |      sum size |  time |        |
---+-------+------+-------+---------------+-------+--------+---------
 1 | done  |  0/0 |   1/1 |     92KB/92KB | 10/03 |     2s |   46KB/s
   |       |  0/0 |   0/0 |     0.0B/0.0B | 17:06 |        |
 2 | done  |  0/0 |   1/1 |     92KB/92KB | 10/03 |     8s | 11.5KB/s
   |       |  0/0 |   1/1 |     0.0B/0.0B | 17:06 |        |
 3 | done  |  1/1 |   2/2 |     99KB/99KB | 10/03 |     1s |   99KB/s
   |       |  4/4 |   0/0 |   198KB/198KB | 17:07 |        |
 4 | error |  1/1 |   1/2 |     92KB/99KB | 10/03 |     3s | 30.7KB/s
   |       |  0/0 |   0/0 |     0.0B/0.0B | 17:08 |        |
 5 | done  |  1/1 | 64/64 | 65.5GB/65.5GB | 10/03 |    29s | 2.26GB/s
   |       |  0/0 |   0/0 |     0.0B/0.0B | 17:09 |        |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the detailed status of all operations in transfer #2:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --status --id=2\fP

state | op     | target                  | size |  date | length |   rate
      | tool   | info                    |      |  time |        |
------+--------+-------------------------+------+-------+--------+-------
done  | cp     | host2:/home/user1/file1 | 92KB | 10/03 |     5s | 18KB/s
      | bbftp  | -                       |      | 17:06 |        |
done  | chattr | host2:/home/user1/file1 |    - | 10/03 |     1s |      -
      | sftp   | -                       |      | 17:06 |        |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the detailed status of all operations in transfer #4 that have an
error state:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --status --id=4 --state=error\fP

state | op    | target            | size | date | length | rate
      | tool  | info              |      | time |        |
------+-------+-------------------+------+------+--------+-----
error | cp    | /tmp/dir2/file2   |  7KB |    - |      - |    -
      | rsync | rsync: send_files |      |      |        |
      |       | failed to open    |      |      |        |
      |       | "/dir2/file2":    |      |      |        |
      |       | Permission denied |      |      |        |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the detailed status of all operations in transfer #3 that involve a
file name containing "file2":
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --status --id=3 --search=file2\fP

state | op    | target      | size |  date | length |  rate
      | tool  | info        |      |  time |        |
------+-------+-------------+------+-------+--------+------
done  | cp    | /dir2/file2 |  7KB | 10/03 |     1s | 7KB/s
      | mcp   | -           |      | 17:07 |        |
done  | cksum | /dir2/file2 |  7KB | 10/03 |     1s | 7KB/s
      | msum  | -           |      | 17:07 |        |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the history of all transfers:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --history\fP

id | origin        | command
---+---------------+--------------------------------------
 1 | host1.domain  | shiftc file1 /dir1
   | [/home/user1] |
 2 | host1.domain  | shiftc file1 host2:
   | [/home/user1] |
 3 | host1.domain  | shiftc -r --no-verify /dir1 /dir2
   | [/home/user1] |
 4 | host1.domain  | shiftc -r --secure host2:/dir2 .
   | [/tmp]        |
 5 | host1.domain  | shiftc -r --hosts=4 /bigdir1 /bigdir2
   | [/home/user1] |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show the history of all transfers that involve a host or a command
containing "host2":
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --history --search=host2\fP

id | origin        | command
---+---------------+----------------------------------
 2 | host1.domain  | shiftc file1 host2:
   | [/home/user1] |
 4 | host1.domain  | shiftc -r --secure host2:/dir2 .
   | [/tmp]        |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create a tar file "bigdir1.tar" in the current directory that consists
of the contents of "/bigdir1" with a corresponding table of contents
stored in "bigdir1.tar.toc" in the current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --create-tar --index-tar /bigdir1 bigdir1.tar\fP

Shift id is 6
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create tar files prefixed with "bd1.tar" in the remote directory
"/dir2" on host "host2" that consist of the contents of "/bigdir1",
split at 16 GB boundaries:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --create-tar --split-tar=16g /bigdir1 host2:/dir2/bd1.tar\fP

Shift id is 7
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Extract the split tar files prefixed with "bd1.tar" in the remote
directory "/dir2" on host "host2" to the current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --extract-tar host2:'/dir2/bd1.*tar' .\fP

Shift id is 8
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Synchronize the local directory "/dir1" with the remote directory
"/dir2/dir1" on host "host2" while waiting for completion:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc -r --sync --wait /dir1 host2:/dir2\fP

Shift id is 9
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
Waiting for transfer to complete...

id | state | dirs | files |     file size |  date | length | rate
   |       | sums | attrs |      sum size |  time |        |
---+-------+------+-------+---------------+-------+--------+-------
 9 | done  |  1/1 |   2/2 |     99KB/99KB | 10/03 |     5s | 18KB/s
   |       |  4/4 |   3/3 |   198KB/198KB | 17:14 |        |
.fi
.RE
.PP
Recursively copy local directory "/bigdir1" to local directory
"/bigdir2" but exclude files ending in ".log".
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc -r --exclude='\\.log$' /bigdir1 /bigdir2\fP

Shift id is 10
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
.PP
Extract the files "1g.20" through "1g.29" from "bigdir.tar" to the
current directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\fBshiftc --extract-tar --include='1g\\.2[0-9]' bigdir1.tar .\fP

Shift id is 11
Detaching process (use --status option to monitor progress)
.fi
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "NOTES"
./"################################################################
Transfers of files from DMF-managed file systems can take significantly
longer than other transfers as files may need to be retrieved from
tertiary storage before they can be copied.
./"################################################################
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
./"################################################################
shiftc exits with 0 on success or >0 if an error occurs.
./"################################################################
.SH "FILES"
./"################################################################
/var/spool/cron/tabs/$USER
.RS
An entry is added into the user's crontab on each client host on which
a given transfer is being processed unless \fB\-\-no\-cron\fP is
specified.  This entry periodically invokes the client with specific
arguments to check if the original client is still running.  If so, the
manager is notified that the transfer is still in progress.  If not, the
cron-invoked client will take over transfer processing.
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "AUTHOR"
./"################################################################
shiftc was written by Paul Kolano.
./"################################################################
.SH "SEE ALSO"
./"################################################################
bbftp(1), cp(1), Date::Parse(3), mcp(1), msum(1), perlre(1),
perlsyn(1), rsync(1), scp(1), sftp(1)
